# Supercon 2024 Badge Project

My 2024 Supercon badge add-on is a real-time CO2 monitor with simple "stoplight" display of overall air quality using red, yellow, and green LEDs.  CO2 as a component of overall air quality isn't much talked about and health-specific requirements seem more advisory than proscriptive, but there's movement to do more in both monitoring and reducing CO2 especially in indoor settings.

The CO2 monitor add-on I have in mind is based on:
* The Sensirion SCD40 true CO2 sensor, in particular the [Adafruit packaged version](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5187), which is small, accurate, supports I2C via either Qwiic connectors or dedicated wiring, provides additional on-board components for ease of use, and has mounting holes that allow it to be piggy-backed on a larger overall board or enclosure.
* Rectangular LEDs with a thin outer case, allowing them to be grouped into a single status bar, such as [these](https://www.lumex.com/led-thru-hole-rect-1.html).
* Simple digital logic that translates the SAO connector's two GPIO digital inputs into control for the three LEDs. For me this is a delightful throwback to my college Electrical Engineering days almost exactly fifty years ago.  I know I could do this in other ways, e.g. with a smart RGB LED, but wanted to re-experience low-level digital design.
* Presumption of programming in Python with an RP2040 main processor on the badge itself.  (This is a guess based on prior year's badges and won't be known for sure until about two weeks before Supercon.  Hopefully I'm not too far off.)

I used [KiCad](https://kicad.org) to design a printed circuit board (PCB) that could  directly mount the LEDs, digital logic circuit, and SAO badge connector and also support the SCD40 breakout board both via mounting holes and connection points for the I2C interface. In the process I realized I'd need to build and test the add-on without actually having the badge in hand. That led to the design of a simple SAO breakout board PCB that could handle either a female SAO connector (to simulate the badge itself) or a male SAO connector (to simulate being an add-on).  KiCad projects for both are here as well.

I used one of my on-hand Adafruit Feather RP2040 boards as a stand-in for the badge. That made it possible to breadboard the CO2 add-on's LED logic and connect the SCD40 via Qwiic cables, increasing my confidence in attempting a PCB design.  Software for that prototype was developed in CircuitPython, which Adafruit supports for both the SCD40 and Feather RP2040, knowing I should be able to migrate to MicroPython if that's indeed what is announced for the badge.